Review Form

Please keep in mind that the review is meant to support the author with constructive and useful information that helps him/her to improve the quality of the paper. After reading your review, the author should know about the weaknesses of his/her paper and the author should also know how to fix these.
Reviewing a paper requires careful preparation and reading. You might encounter parts of the paper that require to read additional literature (referenced in the paper) in order to understand them. Please have a look at this additional literature whenever necessary.
-------------------------------------------

Paper filename: HZ1_1.pdf

Title of the paper: Accountability and Privacy in the Modern Internet

---------
Reviewer
---------

Knowledge (Your knowledge about the topic):
( ) No previous knowledge
( ) Little knowledge
(X) Skilled
( ) Expert

------------
Review
------------

Paper summary: Give a short summary of the contents of the paper and discuss the scientific aspects of the paper. [3-5 Sentences]
The paper "Accountability and Privacy in the Modern Internet" deals with the topic of accountability of senders for data packets in the network, while privacy of senders should be maintained.
Therefore, the paper at first discusses distinct solutions for accountability (such as AIP) and privacy (such as proxy servers, TOR etc.) and presents possible problems for merged solutions.
Afterwards the Accountable and Private Internet Protocol (APIP), which tries to embed the best of both accountability and privacy, is discussed, and possible issues and an evaluation are shown.

Paper strengths: What are the strengths of the paper. Mainly consider the content and the scientific quality of the paper. [3-5 Sentences]
The author is able to motivate why the internet needs accountability and privacy.
In addition, the structure supports the reader, as accountability and privacy are discussed distinctly at first and merged later on.
Protocols and techniques are explained well in a useful order; The reader is able to follow most explanations easily.

Paper weaknesses: What are the weaknesses of the paper. Mainly consider the content, structure, and the scientific quality of the paper. [3-5 Sentences]
Some equations lack explanations and can be confusing.
Moreover, very few sentences are complexly written and get too long.
These sentences could be split up into two sentences.

Presentation of the paper: Quality and clarity of the presentation
( ) Difficult to follow, badly written, and unorganized
( ) Some difficulties regarding structure and clarity
(X) Well structured and well written with minor difficulties
( ) Well structured and easy to read. Good presentation.

Comments about the presentation of the paper: [at least two sentences per question]

1. Is the paper well organized?
The paper is clearly structured into steps. At first, accountability solutions and privacy solutions are explained independent. Eventual drawbacks from accountability to privacy and vice versa are shown.
Afterwards it is explained how APIP tries to combine both and where APIP shows new drawbacks.

2. Is there a clear structure that helps the reader to easily understand the contents of the paper?
Yes, the paper is clearly structured helping the reader to understand. Explanations of accountability and privacy are already given in the motivating introduction.
Due to the approach to discuss the two subtopics in different sections, the reader understands which problems may occur and has a better understanding for how APIP deals with these.

3. Do parts of the paper require further explanation? Are some parts poorly written, blurry, or inaccurate? Are there any contradicting statements?
The "Accountability mechanisms" (4.2) are explained broadly, but some equations lack explanations
(e.g. K_{SD_{S}} is explained as a symmetric key for sender and delegate; but does the last subscript "S" stand for symmetric? but what is K^{+}_{D_{S}}? A symmetric public key ? ;) Reference 7 named its delegate D_S, but the author did not and this leads to confusion.)
Also equation 5 is adopted in a wrong way, as it encrypts with the public key instead of the private key.

4. Is the paper complete? Does it contain all necessary parts (Abstract, introduction, main part, presentation of results / discussion, conclusion)? Do these parts serve their purpose?
yes, the paper is complete. It contains an abstract, an introduction, a main part, a presentation of results regarding an evaluation and a conclusion. All parts serve their purpose.

5. Is the text structured into paragraphs and sections? Does this structure aid the reader?
The text is well structured into paragraphs. Statements are clearly separated and help the reader to begin with a new statement.
Moreover, the paper is also clearly structured into sections.

6. Describe the quality of the language.
The paper is mostly written in formal, academic english. Eventually, some sayings such as "makes sense" could be considered informal.
Moreover, very few sentences are a little bit too long and need to be read again. In general, the paper complies with grammar, punctuation and spelling rules of the english language.

7. Do the figures support the process of reading and understanding? Would further figures be useful/necessary?
The figures support the reader. For example, Figure 5 helps understanding the briefing mechanisms.
Further figures are not necessary.

8. Describe the quality of the figures (Resolution, style, font size ...).
The quality of the figures is good. The resolution is well chosen for printing; the text is clearly readable.
Vector based graphics would be even better; the author could try Inkscape to export the vector images of the references or trace the originals.

9. Is there a catchy/sensible caption for every figure? Are the figures mentioned in the text?
Each figure has a catchy caption and is mentioned and described in the text.
Some captions give even more information about the figure and explain these.

10. Suggestions for improving the quality of the presentation.
In general the paper is well presented.
But section 4.3 (Privacy mechanism) is in comparison to section 4.2. a little bit too short.

11. Are there references for all techniques, methods, protocols, etc. Is it clear where the statements/images/graphs have been taken from?
Most protocols and terms regarding techniques or methods are referenced at least once. 
Maybe a repetition of \cite{...} references after "the authors" in the text allow an easier attribution of statements.
Also, the introduction of section 3 is a matter of argument, as details and issues about proxies, vpn etc. are given without references.

12. Do the citations, references, and the references list comply with the usual standards?
The citations and references comply with our standard reference stylesheet.
The references list for websites lacks a lastvisited field.

13. Is the paper correct? Are there any questionable or unjustifiably absolute statements?
As far as the author of this review is able to tell, the paper is correct.
Beside small problems in adoption of equations and statements, the statements are justifiable and seem to be not questionable.

Further comments to the author. Please give further information that can help the author to improve the paper: [at least two sentences]
Try to resolve the equationspart and it gets much clearer. Furthermore, try to avoid overlong sentences.