Review Form

Please keep in mind that the review is meant to support the author with constructive and useful information that helps him/her to improve the quality of the paper. After reading your review, the author should know about the weaknesses of his/her paper and the author should also know how to fix these.
Reviewing a paper requires careful preparation and reading. You might encounter parts of the paper that require to read additional literature (referenced in the paper) in order to understand them. Please have a look at this additional literature whenever necessary.
-------------------------------------------

Paper filename:
HZ2_1.pdf

Title of the paper:
Accountability and Privacy in the Modern Internet

---------
Reviewer
---------

Knowledge (Your knowledge about the topic):
( ) No previous knowledge
(x) Little knowledge
( ) Skilled
( ) Expert

------------
Review
------------

Paper summary: Give a short summary of the contents of the paper and discuss the scientific aspects of the paper. [3-5 Sentences]
The paper presents and discusses approaches to enable privacy and accountability in the Internet. First, it introduces the Accountable Internet Protocol (AIP) as an example for an approach providing only accountability, as well as Tor and Lightweight Anonymity and Privacy (LAP) as examples for approaches providing only anonymity. Afterwards, it presents and discusses the Accountable and Private Internet Protocol (APIP) that aims to enable privacy as well as accountability in the Internet. 

Paper strengths: What are the strengths of the paper. Mainly consider the content and the scientific quality of the paper. [3-5 Sentences]
The paper has a clear structure helping the reader to understand the paper. The need for a solution providing privacy and accountability in the Internet is well motivated in the introduction. Moreover, approaches providing only solutions for accountability or privacy prepare the reader for the main part, as she gets familiar with some partial solutions, whose basic ideas can be used as building blocks.

Paper weaknesses: What are the weaknesses of the paper. Mainly consider the content, structure, and the scientific quality of the paper. [3-5 Sentences]
One weakness of the paper is that the contributions are unclear. The author should clearly state the contributions of the paper. Moreover, some parts of the paper suffer from inaccuracies, making it difficult to understand all introduced ideas and methods. In addition, there are some typing errors as well as grammar and spelling errors, which interfere with reading.

Presentation of the paper: Quality and clarity of the presentation
( ) Difficult to follow, badly written, and unorganized
(x) Some difficulties regarding structure and clarity
( ) Well structured and well written with minor difficulties
( ) Well structured and easy to read. Good presentation.

Comments about the presentation of the paper: [at least two sentences per question]

1. Is the paper well organized?
Overall, the paper is organized and coherent. The chosen order of topics is reasonable and helps to understand the paper.

2. Is there a clear structure that helps the reader to easily understand the contents of the paper?
The chosen structure of the paper is reasonable. Each section is coherent and the reader knows what will be explained, as the structure is introduced in the first section and the section titles are meaningful. However, the author could use some better transitions to lead the reader to the next topic.

3. Do parts of the paper require further explanation? Are some parts poorly written, blurry, or inaccurate? Are there any contradicting statements?
There are parts, which would benefit from some further explanations. For instance, the abbreviation uRPF is used before it is introduced. I would recommend to introduce some terms, such as uRPF, shortly or to provide at least a reference. This helps the reader to better understand the paper. Moreover, some parts are inaccurate and unclear. For instance, the explanation of AIP addresses is a bit inaccurate (regarding the used hashes). Another example is the section about Onion Routing. As far as I know are rendezvous points not necessary for this technique.

4. Is the paper complete? Does it contain all necessary parts (Abstract, introduction, main part, presentation of results / discussion, conclusion)? Do these parts serve their purpose?
The paper is complete. It contains all necessary parts and they serve their purpose.

5. Is the text structured into paragraphs and sections? Does this structure aid the reader?
The text is structured into paragraphs and sections. This allows the reader to find specific parts easily.

6. Describe the quality of the language.
The paper is fluently written and understandable. However, there are some spelling and grammar mistakes that interfere with reading.

7. Do the figures support the process of reading and understanding? Would further figures be useful/necessary?
The chosen figures support the process of reading very well, as they illustrate mechanisms, techniques, and results introduced in the paper. In my opinion, further figures are not necessary.

8. Describe the quality of the figures (Resolution, style, font size ...).
The quality of the figures is good, such that they are easily readable. The resolution and font sizes are sufficient.

9. Is there a catchy/sensible caption for every figure? Are the figures mentioned in the text?
Each figure has an appropriate caption. Moreover, all figures are mentioned in the text.

10. Suggestions for improving the quality of the presentation.
At first, I would recommend to carefully remove all typing and spelling errors. Moreover, there are some problems with the formatting. For instance, a section title should not be the last line of a half page.

11. Are there references for all techniques, methods, protocols, etc. Is it clear where the statements/images/graphs have been taken from?
All used images are referenced. However, not all techniques and methods are referenced. For instance, the methods and techniques provided in Section 3 are not referenced.

12. Do the citations, references, and the references list comply with the usual standards?
The used citations and references comply with the usual standards. Moreover, the reference list is correct.

13. Is the paper correct? Are there any questionable or unjustifiably absolute statements?
Except for some inaccuracies and a bit unclear explanations, the paper seems to be correct in general. However, some statements should be proved by proper references.


Further comments to the author. Please give further information that can help the author to improve the paper: [at least two sentences]
In my opinion the paper has many minor problems that should be addressed. In general, I would recommend to elaborate more on possibly unclear parts, as this helps the reader to understand the whole paper. In addition, some concrete examples might also be helpful. All in all, the paper is promising but needs some fine-tuning.
